title: The Marvelous Land of Oz
date: 18/05/2011
tags: oz
image: /img/articles/2011/may/marvelous.png

In the Country of the Gillikins, which is at the North of the Land of Oz,
lived a youth called Tip. There was more to his name than that, for old
Mombi often declared that his whole name was Tippetarius; but no one was
expected to say such a long word when "Tip" would do just as well.

This boy remembered nothing of his parents, for he had been brought when
quite young to be reared by the old woman known as Mombi, whose reputation,
I am sorry to say, was none of the best. For the Gillikin people had reason
to suspect her of indulging in magical arts, and therefore hesitated to
associate with her.

Mombi was not exactly a Witch, because the Good Witch who ruled that
part of the Land of Oz had forbidden any other Witch to exist in her
dominions. So Tip's guardian, however much she might aspire to working
magic, realized it was unlawful to be more than a Sorceress, or at most
a Wizardess.

Tip was made to carry wood from the forest, that the old woman might boil
her pot. He also worked in the corn-fields, hoeing and husking; and he fed
the pigs and milked the four-horned cow that was Mombi's especial pride.

But you must not suppose he worked all the time, for he felt that would
be bad for him. When sent to the forest Tip often climbed trees for
birds' eggs or amused himself chasing the fleet white rabbits or fishing
in the brooks with bent pins. Then he would hastily gather his armful of
wood and carry it home. And when he was supposed to be working in the
corn-fields, and the tall stalks hid him from Mombi's view, Tip would
often dig in the gopher holes, or if the mood seized him--lie upon his
back between the rows of corn and take a nap. So, by taking care not to
exhaust his strength, he grew as strong and rugged as a boy may be.

Mombi's curious magic often frightened her neighbors, and they treated her
shyly, yet respectfully, because of her weird powers. But Tip frankly hated
her, and took no pains to hide his feelings. Indeed, he sometimes showed
less respect for the old woman than he should have done, considering she was
his guardian.

There were pumpkins in Mombi's corn-fields, lying golden red among the rows
of green stalks; and these had been planted and carefully tended that the
four-horned cow might eat of them in the winter time. But one day, after the
corn had all been cut and stacked, and Tip was carrying the pumpkins to the
stable, he took a notion to make a "Jack Lantern" and try to give the old
woman a fright with it.